Welcome home.
Welcome to Brea Temple.
We are, we are, we are in our series.
We are, we're coming to a close and as we continue through our main series, this is again helping to define who we are as a church, but more specifically through the Christmas season,
This sub-series, if you will, we've been exploring what it means to be carriers of the promise of Christ.
Last week we learned that we were bearers of hope.
We were entrusted with the promise of God that was fulfilled ultimately in Jesus.
This week we're going to be taking it a step further and we're going to see that we are the light in the darkness.
Because see, here's the thing, hope that we talked about last week and light that we're going to talk about this week are ultimately inseparable.
Where hope is planted, light shines and darkness is ultimately overcome.
I don't care how much we talk about our lost and dying world, about Berea Temple as a church going into the darkness.
Because we are planted right here.
We are a light.
We are a beacon.
And there is nothing that can overshadow the light of Jesus that is at the corner of Compton and Russell.
Our job is to reflect that light brighter and brighter.
Have you ever been in absolute darkness?
Maybe a power outage.
I may remember those when we were kids.
Thank the Lord.
We don't have too many more of those in our modern day.
They fixed the power grid.
But I can remember when I was a kid, one of the things we had to know was where the candles were because there was a good chance, especially in the winter, the lights were going to go out.
power was going to go down and we were going to have to do it old school and get the candles out.
Maybe you've been camping or you've been far away from city lights that there wasn't even the glow that the city just kind of naturally puts off because of all the lights that are here.
It can be unnerving.
I mean, if you're out and you're not used to that kind of darkness where you can't see anything,
I can't even see really where you're going.
But then all of a sudden somebody strikes a match or somebody turns on a flashlight and everything changes.
Everything that was dark and maybe a little fearful or that little bit of uneasiness because you couldn't see maybe just a few feet in front of you.
All of a sudden now the light is shining.
Even the light from a simple little matchstick.
And all of a sudden
Everything changes.
Even the smallest little light has the power to overcome the deepest, the darkest night.
The Gospel of John, if you have your Bibles and you want to turn, we're going to be in John chapter one, verses four and five.
John chapter one, verses four and five.
The Gospel of John opens with this powerful truth.
It says, the light shines in the darkness and the darkness can never say never.
Never extinguish it.
How is that?
Because Jesus is the light sent to pierce the darkness of sin and brokenness.
But here's the incredible part of this.
As his followers, we are called to reflect his light to a lost and dying world.
Berea Temple is a beacon
It is a place for the light of Jesus to come and to shine brightly, illuminating every believer that comes.
And then as we go out, we go as matchsticks, we go as flashlights, we go as mirrors reflecting.
His presence, His light, His love to a lost and dying world into the darkest parts of our city, the parts that need Jesus more than any place else.
And we go into that.
Maybe it's our neighborhood.
Maybe it's where we work.
Maybe it's simply a place where we choose to go and to share Jesus intentionally.
And we reflect the light of Jesus.
So today we're going to see what it means to live as light in darkness, carrying the hope of Christ into a world that is ultimately desperate for his love and his truth.
If you're an outtaker, our first point is this, that Jesus is the light that breaks
the darkness.
So we're going to lay again a foundation.
Again, if you have your Bibles, you're already there, John chapter one, verses four and five.
It says this, it says, the word gave life to everything that was created and his life brought light to everyone.
The light shines in the darkness and the darkness can never extinguish it.
I want to kind of stop and point out something for a moment.
Again, we're talking about, we've always talked about being good students of God's word.
This idea of darkness is one of the most powerful metaphors in scripture.
It represents sin, fear, despair, and ultimately it represents separation from God.
Think about when you were a little kid,
how people, infants in particular, little children instinctively know to avoid actual darkness.
Like, I'm not gonna go in that dark room because there's scary things in there.
It's unsettling.
Darkness can be disorienting and sometimes darkness can be dangerous if you don't know if this room was pitch black and I'm walking around and I don't realize that there's steps here I might wind up on my face.
For some they would say that was an improvement.
But spiritually the world without Jesus is ultimately that.
The world without Jesus is a world that is wandering around in darkness, hoping that they put their foot in the right place.
And how many of our friends, our family, our loved ones have stepped off the ledge and have ultimately gotten hurt.
Now, when I say hurt, I'm talking about drugs, alcohol, sex, gambling, bad relationships.
all kinds of things that cause us to get into some kind of issue, some kind of struggle that we would have otherwise been able to avoid had we had the light of Jesus.
But see, the Gospel of John declares the good news.
Jesus, the eternal Word, entered this darkness.
this place that was ultimately without him.
And he comes in and he brings a light and he says, I'm the light and I can't be extinguished.
When we talk about Jesus being the light, Jesus brings life.
Look back at John chapter one, verse four.
Look at that passage.
But I want to point it out.
I know some of you read out of different translations.
I want to point it out this time out of the new living.
I'm sorry, we read it in the new living out of the NIV.
And it says this, it says, in him was life and that life was the light of all mankind is the way that translation reads.
Jesus offers more than physical life.
He gives a spiritual life to everyone.
not young, not old, not man, not female, to everybody, to all of mankind.
He offers life, spiritual life.
He shines His light into the darkest places that sin overcomes in our life.
And He offers salvation to anybody who will believe in Him.
See, all of us in our life, and I don't care how pious you want to sit here and act,
Every one of us has a dark place in our heart.
Every one of us has those places that we really wish God wouldn't look.
And we're going, Lord, please forgive me.
And he brings that light.
and he works through us in the progression of sanctification.
He works through us and he works through our heart and he begins working through all of those dark places.
And he begins working through all of those things that we really wish that he would just leave alone.
But he brings that little bit of light.
Again, picture the matchstick.
Just a little bit of light.
And that little bit of light shines through into those darkest places of our heart.
He says, if you'll give this over to me, I can take on that burden and I can forgive you of the sin.
All you have to do is let me leave my light here.
Let me leave my light, the light of my son, Jesus.
It's ultimately without him humanity remains
in the shadow of sin and ultimately death.
Jesus has to provide that light.
Nobody else can because it is ultimately His light that overcomes the darkness.
Go down to verse five.
Again, we're going to read this out of the NIV.
Notice John's wording here.
In this particular translation, it says, the light shines in the darkness and the darkness has not overcome it.
The darkness has not overcome it.
No amount of darkness can overpower even the smallest minute amount of light.
Just as no force of evil can extinguish the truth and the victory that Jesus gives us.
There is no lie if you are a child of God.
There is no lie that can overcome you.
That Jesus can't calm.
That Jesus can't bring light and truth to.
There is no problem.
There is no trial.
There is no difficulty that you can face in your life that Jesus can't bring light to.
Because here's something that I think many of us get wrong.
I've referenced this before.
And I know it's a simple, you go, well, pastor, that's obvious.
But is it when we talk about the way that we act, the way that we handle ourselves?
God and Satan are not co-equals.
They are not opposites of the same coin.
They are not as the Asians would say yin and yang where you have the black circle and you have the white circle and they come together to make a hole and there's a little bit of dark and a little bit of light in the two pieces.
That's not a representation of God.
God is here.
God is not created.
God is all being, all knowing, all powerful, all seeing, all divine.
Satan is a created being and the creator at a moment can crush a created being.
But when we act, and again, I know all of you, you go past, that's old news, that's silly, we all know that, but then when we act during our regular daily lives, we go, uh-oh, they're equal.
Satan's attacking me.
Uh-oh.
No.
There is no light.
There is no darkness that can overcome the light.
There is nothing that the enemy can do that is not within the power of the Creator to overcome.
Now, there may be times just like a dad might watch his son stick a fork in a light socket and go, huh, you won't do that anymore, will you?
Because he needed to learn the lesson.
Sometimes he'll allow the lesson to come because he knows we need to be dependent on him.
But there is nothing that can happen that he can't overcome at his word.
Because Jesus, God, the Father, he doesn't negotiate with darkness.
This is not a co-equals.
He ultimately came to defeat it when he died on the cross.
When he was born and then died on the cross, he came to defeat the darkness.
Through his death, his resurrection, he broke the power of sin and death once and for all.
Light wins, darkness doesn't.
Again, I want to take you to a mental picture, an illustration if you will.
Imagine being trapped in a pitch black cave with absolutely no way out.
We talked about this as a reference last week about the miners.
You feel the weight of the darkness pressing in.
Fear, a little bit of sweat begins to form on your brow.
You can't move, you can't see, you're afraid to go any direction because you don't know what's beyond the darkness.
Then all of a sudden you hear that voice, hey, are you in here?
And all of a sudden the flashlight goes on.
And that flashlight pierces through the darkness.
Just a single beam of light becomes your hope and is ultimately a guiding path to safety.
All of the sweat, all of the fear, the heart racing, the blood pumping, all of the sudden begins to calm.
And now you have a path to follow and you have a voice to listen to.
See, Jesus is the voice and Jesus is the beam of light piercing the darkness saying, hey, if you will follow me,
I have a way to salvation.
I have a way to freedom.
That's what he offers.
When we talk about Jesus being the light, this is a mental picture, a visual, if you will, of what that looks like.
Let me take it a step further.
For those who haven't accepted Jesus, let me ask you this question.
Are there places in your life where the darkness feels overwhelming?
fear, guilt, shame or hopelessness presses in.
Can I tell you that Jesus offers to bring light and life into those very spaces?
All you have to do is to let him shine into those areas that you've been trying to hide and you've been trying to control all on your own.
It's not always easy.
It's not always pleasant.
But if you will let him shine a light, I do promise you he will carry you and he will never leave you and he will never forsake you.
And you go, pastor, that's great.
Oh, that's wonderful.
You're talking to the unsaved, those who need to know Jesus.
But what about for believers?
See, even as a follower of Christ, we sometimes let shadows creep into our lives.
Whether it's worry or doubt or unconfessed sin, might I encourage you to let the light of Jesus shine even in those areas.
Let him through his light lead you back into peace and freedom.
Lead you back into that place of relationship.
or maybe the shadows and you've been hanging out on the edges.
You've been hanging out in just, it's not really the dark.
Just kind of over here away from the lights, just kind of out of, and you've been living out on the edge.
Why'd you stop and step back into the middle of the light?
Allow Him to shine, whatever He needs to shine.
Work on it today.
Work on it now so then it doesn't become an issue that separates you when Jesus says it's time to come home.
Because here's the thing, the light reminds us that the darkness around us doesn't win.
His truth, His hope will always prevail if you will let the light shine.
So Jesus is the light of the world, but His mission doesn't stop there.
As His followers were called to reflect His light becoming ambassadors.
We've talked about this throughout our entire time together.
We are to become His ambassadors in a world that desperately needs Him.
So let's look at what this might look like.
Point number two if you're a note taker.
We are called to reflect his light.
Look at Matthew chapter five versus 14 to 16.
We covered this verse last week, but I think it applies even here again.
Matthew chapter five versus 14 to 16.
You are the light
of the world like a city on a hilltop that cannot be hidden.
No one lights a lamp and then puts it under a basket.
Instead, a lamp is placed on a stand where it gives light to everyone in the house.
In the same way, let your good deeds shine out for all to see so that everyone will praise your heavenly Father.
See, when Jesus tells his followers, you are the light of the world, he's making a bold declaration
about who we are, about our identity.
We're not the source of light.
That's Jesus.
But we are called to reflect it like the moon reflecting the sun's light.
Our lives are meant to point people toward God.
So what does it mean to reflect his light?
We're to shine in character.
Living as a light means embodying Christ-like.
How do we say that in our modern day?
Christ-like?
Christian, thank you, sister.
Christian qualities in our daily lives.
Love, kindness, integrity, humility.
This doesn't mean perfection.
There is nobody within the sound of my voice.
There is nobody sitting on this planet today that has achieved perfection.
Every one of us is flawed human beings.
Every one of us is broken.
Every one of us is in need of Jesus.
But what it does mean when we talk about Christian character, it doesn't mean perfection.
It means consistency and authenticity.
When people see how we live, they should catch a glimpse of Jesus.
I'm not going to do everything right.
I'm sorry to tell you that.
But I am doing my best and I learn every day to reflect Jesus in everything that we do.
What does it mean to reflect His light shining in character and shining in action?
Go back to Matthew chapter five, verse 16, that last part of the verse.
There we go.
It reminds us that our good deeds are like beams of light shining out for all to see the passage says helping them see and glorify God.
This might look like acts of generosity speaking words of encouragement or stepping in to meet somebody's physical need.
Thank you to everybody who shined
and reflected Jesus in action.
It's evidenced sitting here.
I mentioned the moon a moment ago.
Think about the moon for a moment.
The moon does not have its own source of light.
It simply reflects the light of the sun.
And on a clear night, the moon can brighten up the darkness in a way that is both calming
and beautiful, but its brilliance comes entirely from the sun.
In the same way we as believers, we don't generate our own light.
We reflect the light of the sun.
S-O-N. Jesus.
The closer we align ourselves with Him through prayer, through worship, and might I use this word?
obedience, the more clearly his light shines through us, illuminating the world around us, giving light to the people that God has placed in our circle of influence.
How do we put this into practice?
Well, first we need to identify our circle of influence.
Where has God placed you to shine His light?
Is it your workplace?
Is it school?
Is it family?
Or again, as we've talked many times about being an ambassador in your neighborhood.
Think about how you can live in a way that points others to Jesus.
And ultimately, we need to live differently in a dark world.
When the world chooses bitterness, choose to forgive.
Don't give in to the bitterness.
Don't allow somebody else's bitterness, somebody else's selfishness, somebody else's fear, somebody else's anger, somebody else's issues to cloud you.
Choose to be Jesus.
Choose forgiveness.
Choose generosity.
Choose faith over fear.
Choose joy over anger.
And here's a challenge.
Ask yourself, does my life reflect the light of Jesus?
If there are areas where the mirror is smudged, ask God to clean it, to renew your heart so his light can shine even more brightly, even more brilliantly.
A dirty mirror, ladies, if you ever think about, you pull out your little purse mirror, the one that has the powder in it.
Guys, I know you have no clue what I'm talking about.
It's okay.
You open up that mirror, and it's got that face powder all over the mirror part, and you're trying to, and so what you gotta do, you gotta take your thumb and clean it off a little bit so you can see yourself a little bit better.
If our mirror's a little bit smudged, if a little bit of darkness, a little bit of shadow is kind of casted over the mirror, then ask Jesus, would you help me clean this out a little bit?
Would you help me clean this so that I would shine even more brilliantly, even more clearly to the people that you have put in my circle of influence?
Because here's the thing.
The world is full of people walking in darkness, desperate for hope and direction, but Jesus called us to reflect His light.
But it's not just a reflection.
He calls us to take it into the darkest places.
It's an action.
So let's see how we can carry his light where it's needed most.
If you're a note taker, there's point number three.
Darkness needs our light.
There are places in our city that need the light of Jesus that is dwelling in you.
And he's asking, would you go?
Look at John chapter eight and verse 12.
John chapter eight and verse 12 says, Jesus spoke to the people once more and said, I am the light of the world.
If you follow me, you won't have to walk in darkness because you will have the light that leads to life.
See, darkness
can feel overwhelming, whether it's the darkness of sin or grief or loneliness or despair.
But Jesus reminds us that his light is not just for comfort.
Yes, light is wonderful.
You turn it on.
And matter of fact, if you look even here, unfortunately, we have multiple colored lights in our running lights.
And some of those are called cool.
And some of them are called warm.
Why?
In our modern context, physical light is designed for comfort.
Cool light is designed for utility.
But the light of Jesus isn't just for our comfort.
It's meant to shine into the lives of others.
When he says, I am the light of the world, he is also commissioning us to carry his light to those who are lost and hurting.
If you have not heard anything else through this series, we are.
The world desperately needs the light of Jesus because this is a world just that is full of darkness.
full of people walking around in spiritual darkness, searching for purpose, for peace, for hope.
Many of them don't even realize they're lost until somebody shines light into their life.
Darkness hides truth.
It distorts reality.
But Jesus and His light reveals who we are, who God is, and the way ultimately to salvation.
So what is our responsibility?
We saw this back in our passage in Matthew chapter five in verse 14.
Jesus calls us the light of the world.
Notice that He doesn't say you might be or that you will be.
It is a declaration of we are.
We are the light of the world.
and He is the light that we need to carry.
When we will carry, if we will carry, when we carry, the light into the world.
When we carry the light of Christ into the darkness, it brings transformation, it brings change, hearts are softened, lives are changed, and hope is restored.
Think about
our first responders when they have to go on a rescue mission during a power outage.
They use flashlights to guide people to safety.
Without that light, people would remain trapped in fear and in danger.
And as believers, we are like those first responders using the light of Christ to guide other people out of spiritual darkness into his love and his truth.
So how do we do this?
How do we guide people?
How do we become spiritual first responders?
First of all, we need to be intentional about sharing our light.
Who in your life is walking in darkness?
Is it a coworker struggling with a loss?
Is it a friend searching for meaning?
Ask God to show you the specific people who need His light this week.
You can't do it for everybody.
There's too spread out at all times.
Only he can do that.
He'll send the right people at the right time.
But who can you?
Who are you going to be the light bearer for this week?
Share Christ with them.
Share with words, share with actions or simply by being present in a time of need.
But ultimately, whatever you do, shine brightest in your community.
Whatever community God has placed you in, find practical ways to bring the light of Jesus to the city of St. Louis.
This could mean volunteering, supporting local ministries, or inviting somebody to church.
Like, I don't know, the kids thing they mentioned earlier that's gonna be next week.
Invite somebody, again, not to pound too hard a nail, 80% of people will accept an invitation from you to come to church.
All they're asking, all they're waiting for is for you to ask.
About 20% will accept an invitation from me as the pastor.
So invite somebody because remember this,
The light that you carry, the Jesus in you may be the only light that somebody ever sees.
It may be the only light that ever comes into their life.
I'm going to take a moment and divert from my notes for a second because I want to hit that point home for a moment.
There are young men and women who choose to take their own life because there's not been a bit of light in their life from the day they were born to the day that they chose to end it.
And how many believers came across their path and chose to walk by either on the other side or chose to walk by with their light hidden?
Somebody
Maybe you may be the only light that they ever see.
And what they're waiting for is for you to let your light so shine before men that these people are called into that light and they see it and they want it.
And all they're asking is for you to shine.
So I have another challenge for you.
It's this.
Step into the darkness.
Take your light into the dark places.
Don't shy away from hard conversations or difficult circumstances.
Trust that the light of Jesus within you is powerful enough to bring hope and healing wherever you go.
See, the world may feel dark.
but we carry a light that can never be extinguished.
So as we close today, let's reflect on how we can be faithful carriers
of his light, especially during this Christmas season when it is the easiest, not only to carry the little matchstick, but at Christmas it is super easy to grab the largest torch and to light it.
And people won't be upset because why?
It's Christmas, of course.
And we can take the light of Jesus into a lost and dying world.
Be light in the darkness.
This Christmas we're reminded that Jesus is the light of the world, the light that breaks the darkness, the light that we are called to reflect and the light that the world so desperately needs.
As carriers of the promise, we don't just celebrate.
We don't just celebrate in His coming.
We step into the mission to bring hope, peace and truth to others.
Let's pray.
Father, we live in a world that needs your light.
Father, we live in a city that needs your light.
There are many who the enemy has clouded.
There are many who the enemy has thrown shroud over.
And all they see is darkness.
All they do is walk around day to day, wandering in the darkness.
And you have called us not only to be a light, but as we join together here at Berea Temple, we join our light together and we are a beacon of hope and healing to a lost and dying world.
Father, I pray that you would call each one of us, that you would equip each one of us, that you would let our light so shine brightly and burn clear that we reflect the light of Jesus to the darkest places in our city.
But Father, we pray that you would illuminate even the darkest places of our hearts.
If there are places that we have allowed the shadows to creep into,
Father, I pray that you would bring light so that we may repent, that we may turn those areas over to you with every head bowed and every eye closed.
If you have never received the light of Christ into your life today is absolutely the perfect time.
Darkness doesn't have to define your story.
Jesus came to bring you into his light.
He came to forgive you your sins, to guide your steps and to fill your heart with hope and healing if you will only invite him in today.
In just a moment, we're gonna sing our closing song and the altar is open.
If you would like to receive the light of Jesus, you are invited today to those who are already walking with Christ.
The question is this, are you shining His light?
Are there areas of your life where you need His light to shine brighter?
Or are people in your life, are there people in your life who need to see His light through you?
I would invite you to take this moment to recommit to being a beacon of hope and truth in this darkness as we pray.
As we sing our song, the altars are open, the wooden altars are the steps, you're welcome to pray wherever you find more comfortable.
You can turn in your seats, but find a place
to spend a few moments with the Lord, allowing Him to make that mirror just a little more clear, a little more bright.
So Father, we thank You for being a light that shines, that shines through us into the darkness.
Father, we thank You for those that may choose to take their first step toward You today.
We rejoice.
And we thank you for all of us who help us as a body reflect your light in a way that draws others to you.
Father, strengthen us to be bold and faithful carriers of your promise, carrying your light into the darkness.
We praise you and we thank you.
It is in Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.
The altars are open.